so how, how are ya doing today um it's been what about s-six months since I saw you last right? yeah. Okay. s-so what, what brings you in today?

um, well, I, I've been, um, feeling pretty tired lately like really tired and, and I'm, I'm always cold like no matter what I do I, I can't get warm. Mm-hmm. and, and when did, when did that start, um, would you say? prob- probably a couple months ago maybe like three months? I, I dunno, it's, it's been gradual like it's not, it wasn't, like, all of a sudden it's just kinda you know getting worse and worse. Right. Okay. so, so the fatigue and, and the cold intolerance, um, both started around the same time? yeah, yeah. Okay. and, and when was your last, um, lab work done, lemme, lemme pull that up here ... okay, so I'm seeing your, your TSH from, um, about, about two months ago and it was, it was at, uh, 7.2 which is, which is a little elevated right? yeah. okay, okay. and you're, you're currently on, uh, levothyroxyne 100 micrograms is that right?

yeah, yeah, 100, 100 micrograms. I, I take it every morning. Mm-hmm. Okay. and, and how, how are you taking it? like, are you taking it, um, on an empty stomach or, or with food?

um, I, I usually take it with, with breakfast like I, I take it in the morning but, but I eat, like, right after so, so probably not, not on an empty stomach I guess. Mm-hmm. Okay. yeah, so, so that's, that's actually, um, pretty important 'cause, you know, the, the absorption of, of levothyroxyne can be, um, can be affected a lot by food especially, like, calcium and, and fiber and stuff so, so we, we definitely wanna make sure you're taking that on an empty stomach ideally, like, 30 to 60 minutes before, before breakfast. o-oh, okay, I, I didn't, I didn't realize that was, like, such a big deal. I, I thought, you know, just, just taking it in the morning was, was enough. Yeah. No, no, it, it really makes a, a big difference actually. Okay. so, so we'll, we'll talk about that a bit more but, um, lemme, lemme, uh, go through, go through the rest of your, your history here so, um, what, what other medications are you on? I see, I see here you're on, um, lysinopril for blood pressure is, is that still right?

yeah, yeah, I take, I take that, um, 10 milligrams once a day. Okay. and, and anything else? are you on, um, any, any other, uh, prescriptions or, or over-the-counter stuff?

lemme think, um, I, I also take, uh, atorvostatin, 20 milligrams, for, for cholesterol and, um, I take, I take meloxecam sometimes for, for my knee like, when it, when it hurts. Mm-hmm. Okay. and,, and, and how often are you taking the, the meloxecam? not, not very often like maybe, maybe once a week if, if that. i-it's, it's, um, I had, like, a, a knee injury a while back and, and every, every once in a while it, it flares up. Okay. got it. and, and are you taking any, uh, any vitamins or supplements? like, calcium, vitamin D, anything like that?

um, I, I take, I take a, a multivitamin, um, and, and some calcium 'cause, 'cause my, my doctor said I should, um, for my bones, you know. Mm-hmm. Okay. yeah, and, and that's, that's important too 'cause, 'cause calcium can, can really affect the, the levothyroxyne absorption so, so you, you wanna make sure you're, you're taking those, like, at least four hours apart from, from your thyroid medication.

oh, wow, okay, I, I definitely, I definitely wasn't doing that, I, I was taking everything, like, all together in the morning. Yeah. Okay. so, so that's, that's probably, um, that's probably part of why your, your TSH is elevated 'cause, 'cause if, if you're not absorbing the, the medication properly then, then it's not gonna work as well right? yeah. right. Okay. so, so let's, let's, uh, talk about, about some of your other symptoms um, so the fatigue, like, how, how bad is it? are you, are you still able to, to function, to work or, or is it, is it really impacting your, your day?

it's, it's pretty bad like I, I get home from work and, and I just, I just wanna, wanna crash like I can't, I can't even, like, make dinner or, or do anything I just, I just wanna lay down and, and on the weekends, I, I'm, I'm sleeping, like, 10, 12 hours which, which is, like, way more than, than I used to. Mm-hmm. Okay. and, and are you, are you having any, um, any trouble with, with, like, brain fog or, or concentration or, or memory, anything like that?

yeah, actually, yeah, I, I, I've been, um, kinda, kinda foggy like at work I, I find myself, like, staring at, at my screen and, and not, not really, like, processing what I'm, what I'm reading and, and I forget things like I'll, I'll go into a room and, and forget why I, why I went in there that kinda thing. Okay. and, and what about, um, weight changes? have you, have you noticed any, any weight gain or, or difficulty losing weight?

um, yeah, I, I've, I've gained, like, maybe, maybe 5 or 10 pounds over the, the last few months and, and I haven't, like, really changed my diet or, or anything so, so I dunno, it's, it's kinda frustrating. Mm-hmm. Okay. and, and what about, um, any, any changes in your, your hair or, or skin? any, any dryness or, or hair loss?

yeah, my, my skin has been, um, pretty dry and, and my hair, my hair seems, like, thinner like I'm, I'm losing more, more in the shower um, and, and my nails are, are kinda brittle too now that, now that I think about it. Okay. and, and any, um, any constipation or, or digestive issues?

um, some, yeah, I, I've been, like, a little, a little backed up not, not terrible but, but more than, than usual I guess. Mm-hmm. Okay. and, and what about, um, mood changes? have you, have you been feeling, like, down or, or depressed or, or anxious at all?

um, I, I wouldn't say, like, depressed but, but I, I do feel, like, kinda, um, blah, you know, like, just, just not, not myself like I, I don't, I don't wanna, wanna do things that, that I usually enjoy like I, I used to, to go for walks and, and stuff and, and now I, I just, I just don't, don't have the energy for it. Yeah. okay. so, so it sounds like, um, you're, you're having, like, pretty classic, um, hypothyroid symptoms which, which makes sense given that your, your TSH is elevated and, and you're, you're not absorbing the, the medication well 'cause of, 'cause of how you're taking it so, so lemme, lemme, uh, ask you a few more, more questions um, about your, your general health so, um, how's, how's your, your sleep otherwise? like, are you, are you sleeping okay or, or do you have trouble, trouble falling asleep or, or staying asleep?

I, I fall asleep, like, fine actually like I, I'm, I'm so tired I, I just, I just pass out but, but I, I do wake up, like, a, a few times during the night sometimes and, and then I, I have trouble, trouble getting back to sleep but, but honestly, like, I, I think I, I could sleep, like, all day if, if I let myself. Okay. Got it. and, and how's, how's your, your diet? are you, are you eating okay? any, any appetite changes?

um, my, my appetite is, is kinda, kinda low actually like I, I don't, don't feel, like, hungry but, but I, I still, like, eat like I, I eat, like, comfort food like pasta and, and bread and, and stuff 'cause, 'cause it's, it's easy and, and I, I don't, don't feel like, like cooking so, so I, I eat, like, whatever's, whatever's around. Mm-hmm. o-okay. and, and how about, um, exercise? are you, are you getting any, any exercise at all?

not, not really like I, I was, I was walking, like, three, three times a week but, but I, I stopped, like, a couple months ago 'cause, 'cause I was just, just too tired and, and it's, it's cold and, and I, I just, I just don't, don't wanna go outside. yeah. Okay. and, and, um, what, what do you do for, for work? remind me.

I, I work, um, at, at a, an office like, a, a desk job, I, I do, um, data entry so, so I'm, I'm sitting, like, all day which, which doesn't, doesn't help, I, I know. Mm-hmm. o-okay. and, and how's, how's your, your stress level? anything, anything going on, um, at work or, or at home that, that's stressing you out?

um, not, not really like work is, is okay and, and home is, is fine like my, my husband's, um, he's, he's good and, and the, the kids are, are good so, so no, no, like, major stress or, or anything I, I think it's, it's more, like, just, just the physical stuff that, that's getting to me, you know? Yeah. No, that, that makes sense. o-okay. and, and, um, let me, let me ask you about, about your, your family history so, um, any, any family history of, of thyroid disease, um, in your family?

yeah, actually, my, my mom has, um, hypothyroidism she, she takes, takes medication for it and, and I think my, my aunt, um, my mom's sister, she, she has it too and, and there might be, like, some, some autoimmune stuff on, on that side of the family like my, my grandma had, um, I think, like, rheumatoid arthritis or, or something like that. Mm-hmm. Okay. and, and any, any family history of, um, other, other endocrine issues? like, diabetes, or, or anything like that?

um, my, my dad has, like, type 2 diabetes and, and his, his dad had it too so, so there's, there's that and, and my, my mom has, um, high blood pressure and, and high cholesterol so, so I, I get, get it from, from both sides, I guess. Yeah. Okay. a-and, and, um, do you, do you smoke or, or use any, any tobacco products? no, no, I, I never, never smoked. Okay. good. and, and how about, um, alcohol? do you, do you drink?

um, like, socially like maybe, maybe a, a glass of wine, like, once a week or, or something, not, not a lot. okay. and, and any, any, um, recreational drug use?

no, no, nothing like that. okay. good. so, so let me, let me, uh, check your, your vitals here um, so your, your blood pressure today is, is 128 over 82 which, which is, is pretty good um, your, your heart rate is, is 64 um, and your, your weight is, is 168 which is, which is up, up a little bit from, from last time I think you were, you were about 160 last, last visit so, so that's, that's about 8 pounds um, and your, your temperature is, is 97.2 which is, which is a little low but, but that's, that's not uncommon with, with hypothyroidism so, so let me, let me, uh, ask you, um, any, any, uh, chest pain or, or shortness of breath?

no, no, I, I feel, feel fine in, in that regard like no, no chest pain or, or anything. Okay. and, and any, any palpitations or, or irregular heartbeat?

no, no, I, I don't, don't think so. Mm-hmm. and, and any, any, um, dizziness or, or lightheadedness?

um, a, a little like if, if I stand up, like, too fast sometimes I, I get, get a little, little dizzy but, but not, not too bad. Okay. and, and any, any swelling in, in your, your legs or, or ankles?

um, no, not, not really, I, I don't, I don't think so. Mm-hmm. okay. so, so based on, on everything um, you know, your, your symptoms and, and your labs I, I think, you know, we, we need to, to adjust your, your levothyroxyne dose um, and, and also, like, really, really focus on, on how you're taking it 'cause, 'cause I think, I think that's, that's a big part of the, the problem so, so here's, here's what I, I wanna do um, I wanna, I wanna increase your, your levothyroxyne from, from 100 to, to 125 micrograms um, and, and then we're, we're gonna recheck your, your TSH in, in about 8 weeks um, and, and I, I really wanna, wanna emphasize, like, the, the importance of taking it, taking it on an empty stomach so, so ideally, like, first thing in the morning um, 30 to 60 minutes before, before you eat or, or drink anything except, except water um, and, and then, then wait, wait at least 4 hours before, before you take any, any calcium or, or iron supplements or, or antacids or, or anything like that 'cause, 'cause those can really, really interfere with, with the absorption.

okay, yeah, I, I can, I can do that, I, I didn't, didn't realize it was, was that important but, but that makes, makes sense so, so just, just take it, like, right when I, I wake up and, and then, then wait, wait a bit before, before I eat? Yeah. exactly. and, and, you know, some, some people find it, it easier to, to take it at, at bedtime like, 3 to 4 hours after, after their last meal that, that works too um, but, but you, you gotta be consistent so, so whatever, whatever you, you decide, like, morning or, or night just, just stick with, with it 'cause, 'cause that, that helps us, us interpret the, the labs better. Okay. y-yeah. I, I think, I think morning would, would be, um, better for me 'cause, 'cause I, I already, like, have, have a routine in, in the morning so, so I can, I can just, just add it, add it in, like, right when I, I wake up.

Okay. good. and, and, um, let me, let me also, uh, order some, some labs for you so, so we'll, we'll check your, your TSH again um, and, and also, uh, a free T4 and, and I, I also wanna, wanna check your, your, um, CBC and, and CMP just, just to, to make sure everything else, everything else looks okay um, and, and we'll, we'll do that, that in about 8 weeks so, so you don't, don't need to, to go get, get blood drawn today um, but, but in, in 8 weeks I, I want you to, to go get, get the labs done and, and then, then we'll, we'll follow up after, after that um, and, and if, if you're, you're still feeling, like, really, really tired or, or having, having a lot of, of symptoms before, before then just, just call the, the office and, and we can, we can, you know, move things, move things up.

Okay. Yeah. that, that sounds, sounds good so, so just, just the, the one medication change then, the, the levothyroxyne, from, from 100 to, to 125? Yeah. exactly. and, and, you know, just, just really, really focusing on, on the, the timing of, of how you take it 'cause, 'cause I, I think, I think that's, that's, um, probably, like, half, half the, the battle here honestly 'cause, 'cause if, if you're taking it with, with food and, and calcium and, and all that you're, you're probably not, not getting, getting the, the full dose even, even at, at 100 so, so the, the increase plus, plus the better, better absorption should, should make, make a, a big difference.

Okay. Yeah. I, I hope so 'cause, 'cause I, I really, really just, just wanna, wanna feel, feel normal again like I, I'm, I'm so, so tired of, of being, being tired, you know? Yeah. no, I, I get, get that and, and, you know, it, it should, should get, get better um, but, but it, it might take, take a, a few weeks like, 4 to 6 weeks before, before you really, really start to, to notice, notice a, a difference so, so don't, don't get, get discouraged if, if you don't, don't feel, feel better, like, right away okay?

Okay. Yeah. I, I understand I, I know, know it, it takes, takes time so, so I'll, I'll be, be patient and, and just, just take, take it, take it like, like you said and, and get, get the, the labs in, in 8 weeks. okay. good. and, and, um, is there, is there anything else, anything else you, you wanna, wanna talk about, um, any, any other questions or, or concerns?

um, no, I, I don't, don't think so, I, I think, think that's, that's it um, oh, actually, wait, one, one more thing um, I, I've been, like, getting, getting some, some headaches lately like, um, like, 2 or 3 times a week is, is that, could that be, be related to, to the, the thyroid stuff or, or is that, that something else?

Mm-hmm. um, it, it could be 'cause, 'cause, you know, thyroid, thyroid issues can, can cause, cause headaches in, in some people but, but it, it could also, also be, like, tension headaches or, or, um, you know, lots of, lots of different things so, so how, how long, um, have, have you been, been getting, getting those?

um, prob- probably, like, the, the last, last month or, or so and, and they're, they're not, like, terrible like I, I can, can still, still function but, but they're, they're just, like, annoying like, a, a dull, dull ache like, in, in my, my forehead and, and temples and, and, like, over, over my eyes. Okay. and, and do, do you have, have any, um, any nausea or, or, like, sensitivity to, to light or, or sound with, with the headaches?

no, no, not, not really like I, I just, just wanna, wanna close, close my eyes and, and rest but, but no, no nausea or, or anything. Mm-hmm. Okay. and, and are, are you taking, taking anything for, for them?

um, just, just, like, ibuprofin sometimes like, if, if they're, they're bad enough but, but mostly I, I just, just try to, to drink, drink water and, and rest. okay. and, and how's, how's your, your water intake? are, are you, are you drinking, drinking enough, enough water, do, do you think?

um, prob- probably not like I, I know, know I, I should, should drink, drink more but, but I, I mostly, mostly drink, like, coffee and, and, um, like, diet soda and, and stuff so, so probably, probably not, not enough water. yeah. Okay. so, so that, that could, could definitely, um, contribute to, to the headaches so, so I, I would, would try, try to, to increase, increase your, your water intake like, aim for, for at least, at least 64 ounces a day and, and see, see if, if that helps um, and, and if, if the headaches, headaches persist or, or get worse or, or change, change in, in any way then, then let, let us, us know and, and we can, can look, look into, into it further but, but I, I think, think for, for now it's, it's probably, probably just, just a, a combination of, of the, the thyroid the, the dehydration and, and maybe, maybe a little, little tension from, from, you know, work and, and stress and, and stuff.

Okay. Yeah. that, that makes, makes sense I, I'll, I'll try, try to, to drink, drink more water and, and see, see if, if that, that helps. Okay. good. s-so, so to, to summarize um, we're, we're increasing your, your levothyroxyne from, from 100 to, to 125 micrograms um, taking it, it on an empty stomach first thing in, in the morning 30 to 60 minutes before, before eating and, and 4 hours apart from, from calcium and, and iron supplements um, we're, we're gonna recheck your, your TSH and, and free T4 in, in 8 weeks along with, with a, a CBC and, and CMP um, and, and we'll, we'll follow up after, after the labs um, and, and in the meantime try, try to, to stay hydrated and, and, you know, get, get some, some rest and, and, um, if, if anything, anything comes up or, or you, you have, have questions just, just call the, the office okay? Okay. Yeah. that, that sounds, sounds good thank, thank you so much I, I really, really appreciate, appreciate it. you're welcome. take care and, and we'll, we'll see, see you in, in 8 weeks. Okay. bye. Bye.