so how are ya doing today, um, I, I saw you were here for, for the, the fibromyalgia follow-up

Yeah.

Okay. s-so how's, how's the pain been, um, since, since we, you know, bumped up the, the pregabalyn

um, it's, it's been better, like, defi- definitely better than before

Mm-hmm.

the, the 75 was, like, okay I guess but, um, when you, when you went up to 150, like, twice a day, that, that's when I, I started noticing, like, a real difference

Okay, good. and, and what's, uh, what's the pain score at now, like, if, if zero's no pain and ten's the worst

um, I'd say, like, a five maybe, like, it was, it was at a seven before

Mm-hmm.

so, so yeah, that's, that's better, right?

Right. yeah, no, that's, that's good improvement. so, so from seven to five, that's, that's meaningful. um, are you, are you still getting the, the widespread pain, like, the, the bilateral stuff, upper and lower body

yeah, yeah, it's, it's still, like, everywhere but, but it's, it's not as, like, intense, if that makes sense

Mm-hmm. Sure.

like, before it was, like, I couldn't, I couldn't even, like, have my husband touch me, like, on the shoulder or anything, and now, now I can, like, at least tolerate that

Okay. t-that's, that's good. and, and what about, uh, the tender points, like, the, the specific areas, like, the, the neck and, and the, the lower back and, and the hips

um, the, the neck is, is still pretty sore, like, especially in the morning when I, when I wake up, but, but the, the hips are, are better, like, the, the lower back is, is kinda, it's, it's still there but, but it's, like, manageable now

Okay. Got it.

I-I will say though, like, the, the fatigue is, is still really bad

Mm-hmm.

like, I, I wake up and I, I feel like I, I didn't sleep at all, you know?

Yeah. and, and how's, how's the sleep been, like, are you, are you sleeping through the night or, or are you waking up

um, it's, it's kinda hit or miss, like, some nights I, I sleep okay, like, maybe five, six hours, but, but other nights I, I wake up, like, two, three times, and, and then I, I can't get back to sleep

Mm-hmm. Okay.

and, and I, I think, like, the pain, the pain wakes me up sometimes, like, I'll, I'll roll over and, and it just, like, hurts

Right. and,, and, and are you, are you still taking the, the, uh, the trazadone for sleep yeah, I, I take, I take the 50 milligrams, like, at, at night, like, around, like, ten, ten thirty maybe Okay. and, and is that helping at all, or, or do you feel like—

I feel like it, it helps me, like, fall asleep but, but it doesn't, like, keep me asleep, if, if that makes sense

Sure. sure. s-so, so it helps with sleep onset but, but not with sleep maintenance yeah, yeah, exactly Mm-hmm. o-okay. um, so lemme, lemme ask you about, about the other medications, so, so you're on the, the pregabalyn 150 twice daily

yeah

the, the trazadone 50 at bedtime

yep

uh, the, the metformin for the, the prediabetes

right, the, the 500 twice a day

Okay. and, and the, the lisinopril for blood pressure

yeah, 10 milligrams

Mm-hmm. and, and the, the, uh, atorvastatin for, for cholesterol yeah, 20 milligrams Okay. a-and, and are you still on the, the, uh, the sertralin for, for the depression um, so, I, I actually, like, ran out of that, like, a couple weeks ago Okay. and, and I, I haven't, like, refilled it yet, 'cause, 'cause I, I was, like, I dunno, I, I was feeling okay so I, I thought maybe I, I didn't need it anymore Right. and, and how, how long have you been off of it

like, maybe, like, two, two and a half weeks, maybe three weeks

Okay. and, and how, how have you been feeling, like, mood-wise, since, since you stopped

um, I, I dunno, like, it's, it's been, it's been kinda, like, up and down, like, some days I, I feel okay and, and other days I, I feel, like, really, really down, like, I, I just, like, wanna stay in bed all day

Mm-hmm.

and, and I, I've been, like, crying, like, more than usual, like, over, like, stupid stuff, like, I, I cried, like, watching a, a commercial the other day, and, and I was, like, what am I doing

Yeah. Okay. and, and have you, have you had any, like, thoughts of, of hurting yourself or, or anything like that

no, no, nothing like that

Okay. good. and, and what about, like, interest in things, like, are you, are you still doing, like, activities you enjoy or, or has that, has that kinda fallen off

um, it's, it's kinda fallen off, like, I, I used to, like, garden a lot and, and I, I haven't, like, done that in, in weeks, and, and I, I used to, like, see my, my friends, like, every, every week or so, and, and I, I haven't, like, done that either

Mm-hmm. and, and how's your appetite been

um, it's, it's okay, like, I, I'm, I'm eating but, but I, I don't, like, enjoy food, like, the way I, I used to, if, if that makes sense

Sure. and, and any, any weight changes

I, I think I, I lost, like, a few pounds, like, maybe, like, four or five pounds, like, without trying

Okay. so, so it sounds like, like, the depression is, is, you know, kinda, kinda coming back, um, especially with, with stopping the sertralin

yeah, I, I guess, I, I didn't, like, realize, like, how much it was, was helping until, until I stopped

Right. Right. that, that happens, that, that happens a lot, actually. um, so, so lemme, lemme ask you, like, what, what was the, the dose of the sertralin you were on

it was, like, 50 milligrams

Okay. and,, and, and how long were you on it like, um, maybe, like, eight months, something like that Mm-hmm. and, and did you, did you have any, like, side effects from it um, like, at first, like, I, I had some, like, nausea, like, when I, I first started, started it, but, but that, that went away, and, and then, like, the, the sexual stuff, like, that was, that was kinda annoying Yeah. okay. so, so the, the decreased libido

yeah, that, that was, that was a problem

Mm-hmm. Okay. so, so here's, here's what I'm, I'm thinking, um, and, and lemme, lemme know what, what you think about this, 'cause, 'cause I, I think we, we have, like, a, a couple options, um, so, so one option is, is we, we restart the sertralin, um, go back to the 50, and, and see if, if that helps, um, but, but the other option, and, and this is, this is kinda what I'm, I'm leaning toward, is, is we, we try, like, a different medication, um, something called duloxetine

okay

and, and the, the reason I, I like the duloxetine for, for you specifically is, is 'cause it, it works for, for both depression and, and pain, so, so it can, like, help with, with the fibromyalgia pain and, and the, the depression, so, so it's, it's kinda like, like, two birds, one stone, you know?

yeah, that, that sounds, that sounds good, like, I, I like the idea of, of not having to take, like, a million different pills

Sure. Sure. and, and the, the duloxetine, the, the typical starting dose is, is 30 milligrams once daily, um, and, and then we, we can go up to 60 after, like, a week or two, um, and, and the nice thing is, is it, it doesn't tend to, to cause as much of the, the sexual side effects as, as the sertralin did

oh, that's, that's good, 'cause, 'cause that was, like, really frustrating

Yeah. I, I bet. I, I bet. um, so, so the, the other thing to, to keep in mind is, is there can be, like, some, some nausea when, when you first start it, um, kinda like, like with the sertralin, but, but that, that usually, like, goes away after, after a week or so

okay, that, that's fine, I, I can deal with that

Okay. and, and one, one other thing, um, 'cause, 'cause you're on the, the pregabalyn already, and, and we're, we're adding the duloxetine, um, I, I just wanna, wanna check, like, you haven't had any issues with, like, serotonin syndrome or, or anything like that before, right

no, I, I don't, I don't think so, like, I, I don't even, like, really know what that is

Sure. so, so that's, that's, it's, it's rare, but, but it, it can happen when, when you're on, like, multiple medications that, that affect serotonin, but, but since you've been off the sertralin for, for a few weeks, we, we should be, like, totally fine to, to start the duloxetine

okay, good

Mm-hmm. so, so let's, let's do that, um, I'm gonna, gonna send the, the prescription for, for the duloxetine 30 milligrams once daily, um, and, and I'll, I'll see you back in, like, four weeks, and, and if, if things are going okay, we, we can bump it up to, to 60 at that point

okay

Alright. so, so lemme, lemme also ask, um, about, about some other stuff, so, so how's, how's work been, like, are you still, uh, working at the, the, um, the school

yeah, I, I'm still at the, the elementary school, like, I, I teach, I teach second grade

Okay. and, and how's, how's that been going, like, with, with the pain and, and everything

um, it's, it's been, like, hard, like, honestly, like, I, I come home and, and I'm, like, exhausted, like, every day, and, and the, the kids are, are great but, but it's, it's just, like, a lot of, of standing and, and moving around, and, and by the end of the day I, I just, like, wanna, like, lie down and, and not move

Mm-hmm. Yeah. I, I can, I can imagine. um, and, and are you, are you taking any, like, time off or, or are you, are you managing to, to get through the, the days

I'm, I'm managing, like, I, I haven't, like, missed any days or anything, but, but it's, it's, like, getting harder

Okay. and, and what about, uh, exercise, like, are you, are you doing any, any physical activity these days

um, not, not really, like, I, I was, like, walking, like, a while ago, like, maybe, like, last year I, I was walking, like, three times a week, but, but I, I kinda, like, stopped, 'cause, 'cause it, it just, like, hurt too much

Mm-hmm. okay, okay. so, so I, I wanna, wanna talk about that, 'cause, 'cause I, I think, like, exercise is, is actually, like, really important for, for the fibromyalgia, um, but, but I, I understand that, like, regular, like, land-based exercise can, can be, like, really painful, so, so what I, I wanna, wanna do is, is refer you to, to aquatic therapy, which is, is like, like, therapy in, in a pool, and, and the, the warm water is, is really helpful 'cause, 'cause it, it reduces the, the pressure on, on your joints and, and it, it helps with, with the pain, and, and the, the studies show that, that it, it can be, like, really beneficial for, for fibromyalgia patients

oh, that, that sounds, that sounds really nice, actually, like, I, I used to, like, swim, like, when I was younger, and, and I, I loved it

Yeah? Oh, that's great. so, so you'd be, you'd be comfortable in, in the water

yeah, yeah, definitely

Okay. so, so I'm, I'm gonna, gonna send that, that referral, um, and, and they'll, they'll call you to, to set up, like, an initial evaluation, and, and then, and then they'll, they'll work with you, like, once or twice a week, um, and, and the, the goal is, is to, to eventually get you to, to a point where, where you can, like, do it, like, on your own, you know?

yeah, that, that sounds, that sounds great

Okay. um, so, so let's see, what else, um, oh, so, so the, the sleep, the sleep stuff, um, so, so I, I wanna, wanna reinforce some, some sleep hygiene stuff, 'cause, 'cause I, I think even, even with the, the trazadone, like, the, the sleep hygiene is, is really important, so, so what, what does your, your bedtime routine look like, like, what, what time do you, do you go to bed

um, like, usually, like, around, like, eleven, eleven thirty maybe, and, and I, I watch TV, like, in bed, like, for, for a while before, before I fall asleep

Mm-hmm. a-and, and what about, like, screens, like, are you, are you on your phone or, or the iPad or, or anything like that yeah, like, I, I scroll through, like, Facebook or, like, whatever, like, before bed Yeah. so, so that, that's, that's one thing I, I want you to, to work on, 'cause, 'cause the, the blue light from, from the screens can, can really, like, mess with your, your melatonin production, and, and make it harder to, to fall asleep, so, so what I, I'd recommend is, is like, no screens for, for at least, like, an hour before bed

okay

and, and try to, to keep the, the bedroom, like, cool and, and dark, and, and just use the bed for, for sleep, not, not for watching TV or, or scrolling on your phone

right, right, okay

and, and try to, to go to bed at, at the same time every night, even, even on weekends, 'cause, 'cause that, that helps regulate your, your circadian rhythm

yeah, I, I know, I, I know I should, like, do that, it's, it's just hard

Sure. Sure. I, I know it's hard, but, but even, even just, like, starting with, with one thing, like, like, the no screens thing, that, that can make, like, a big difference

okay, I, I can try that

Okay. Good. um, so, so what about, uh, smoking, are you, are you still smoking

no, I, I quit, like, three years ago

Okay. Good. and, and what about, uh, alcohol

um, I, I have, like, a glass of wine, like, maybe, like, once a week, like, on, on the weekends

Okay. that's, that's fine, that's, that's not, not a concern. u-um, and, and what about, uh, caffeine, like, how much caffeine are you, are you drinking oh, like, I, I drink, like, coffee, like, in the morning, like, maybe, like, two cups, and, and then, like, sometimes, like, a, a soda, like, in the afternoon Mm-hmm. Okay. so, so I'd, I'd try to, to limit the, the afternoon caffeine, 'cause, 'cause that can, can also, like, interfere with, with sleep, so, so maybe, like, try to, to cut off caffeine by, like, noon or, or one o'clock

okay, I, I can do that

Okay. um, so, so family history, lemme, lemme just, uh, update that, so, so any, any family history of, of fibromyalgia or, or chronic pain conditions

um, I, I think my, my mom, like, she, she had something, like, she, she was always, like, in pain, like, I, I dunno if, if they ever, like, called it fibromyalgia, but, but she, she was always, like, achy and, and tired

Mm-hmm. Okay. and, and any, any family history of, of depression or, or anxiety

yeah, my, my sister, like, she, she takes, uh, medication for, for depression, and, and my, my dad, like, he, he had, like, PTSD, like, from, from the military

Okay. Got it. and, and any, any family history of, like, autoimmune stuff, like, lupus or, or rheumatoid arthritis

um, not, not that I, I know of

Okay. Alright. um, so, so let me, lemme do, like, a quick, uh, review of systems, so, so any, any headaches

um, yeah, I, I get, like, tension headaches, like, pretty, pretty often, like, maybe, like, two or three times a week

Mm-hmm. and, and do you take anything for those

like, just, just ibuprofin, like, over the counter

Okay. and, and any, any, like, vision changes or, or dizziness

um, like, some, some dizziness, like, when I, I stand up, like, fast, but, but I, I think that's, like, from the, the pregabalyn

Right. yeah, that, that can, can cause that, 'cause, 'cause it can, like, lower blood pressure a little bit, so, so just, just make sure you're, you're standing up, like, slowly, especially in, in the morning

yeah, I, I've been trying to, to do that

Okay. and, and any, any chest pain or, or shortness of breath

no

Okay. and, and any, any, like, GI issues, like, nausea or, or vomiting or, or diarrhea

um, like, some, some constipation, like, off and on, like, I, I think from, from the, the pregabalyn too

Mm-hmm. yeah, yeah. that, that's, that's common. are you, are you taking anything for, for that

like, just, just, like, fiber, like, the, the Metamucil stuff

Okay. and, and is, is that helping

sorta, like, it's, it's better than, than nothing, I guess

Mm-hmm. Okay. u-um, and, and any, any, like, urinary issues no Okay. and, and any, like, rashes or, or skin changes

no, nothing like that

Okay. um,, um, so, so let me, lemme just, uh, do, do the exam, so, so I'm, I'm gonna, gonna check your, your vitals first ... so, blood pressure is 128 over 82, that's, that's good, um, heart rate is 76, um, and, and weight is, let me see, 154 pounds, so, so down, down a little bit from, from last time, which, which is consistent with, with what you were saying

yeah

Okay. um, so, so on, on the exam, um, so, so general appearance, you, you look, you know, you look, like, tired, but, but otherwise, you know, no acute distress, um, heart, regular rate and rhythm, no murmurs, lungs are clear, um, abdomen is soft and non-tender, um, and, and on the, the musculoskeletal exam, so, so I'm, I'm checking the, the tender points, so, so the, the occiput, that's, that's tender, um, the, the trapezius is, is tender bilaterally, um, the, the supraspinatus is, is tender, um, the, the low back is, is tender, and, and the, the greater trochanters are, are tender bilaterally, um, so, so that's, that's, like, seven out of, out of the, the classic eighteen points, which, which is consistent with, with the fibromyalgia

Mm-hmm.

um, and, and neuro exam is, is grossly intact, um, strength is five out of five in, in all extremities, um, sensation is intact, um, reflexes are two plus and symmetric

Okay.

so, so assessment-wise, um, so, so fibromyalgia, the, the pain is, is improved with, with the pregabalyn at 150 twice daily, um, pain score down from, from seven to five, which, which is, is good progress, um, depression is, is, you know, recurrent, um, after, after stopping the sertralin, and, and we're, we're gonna, gonna start the duloxetine for, for that, um, sleep is, is suboptimal with, with, like, fragmented sleep and, and poor sleep hygiene, and, and then the, the fatigue is, is likely related to, to both the, the fibromyalgia and, and the depression and, and the, the poor sleep

yeah, that, that makes sense

Okay. s-so, so the plan is, um, so, one, continue the, the pregabalyn 150 milligrams twice daily, um, two, start duloxetine 30 milligrams once daily, um, and, and follow up in four weeks to, to assess response and, and consider increasing to, to 60 milligrams, um, three, continue the, the trazadone 50 milligrams at bedtime, um, four, continue the, the metformin, the, the lisinopril, the, the atorvastatin, all at, at current doses, um, five, aquatic therapy referral, um, six, sleep hygiene counseling, um, like we talked about, no screens an hour before bed, consistent sleep schedule, cool dark bedroom, limit afternoon caffeine, um, seven, I'm, I'm gonna, gonna order some labs, just, just routine stuff, so, so CBC, CMP, TSH, and, and vitamin D level, um, 'cause, 'cause vitamin D deficiency can, can sometimes, like, contribute to, to fatigue and, and pain, um, and, and eight, follow up in four weeks, sooner if, if things get worse or, or if you have any, like, concerning symptoms okay, that, that sounds good Okay. any, any questions about, about any of that

um, so, so the, the duloxetine, like, how, how long does it, like, take to, to start working

Yeah, good question, so, so typically it, it takes, like, four to six weeks to, to see the, the full effect, but, but you might, might notice, like, some improvement in, in the first, like, one or two weeks, especially with, with sleep and, and energy

okay, and, and the, the aquatic therapy, like, how, how often would I, I be going

so, so initially, like, once or twice a week, um, and, and then, and then as you, you progress, they'll, they'll give you, like, a home exercise program that you can, can do on your own, and, and the goal is, is to, to eventually, like, transition to, to doing it, like, independently

okay, that, that sounds, that sounds good

Mm-hmm. anything, anything else um, I, I don't think so, like, I, I feel like we, we covered everything Okay. well, it's, it's good to, to see you, and, and I'm, I'm glad the, the pregabalyn is, is helping, and, and I, I think the, the duloxetine is, is gonna, gonna be, like, a good addition, and, and the, the aquatic therapy I, I think is, is gonna, gonna make, like, a big difference too

yeah, I, I hope so

Okay. so, so take care, and, and we'll, we'll see you in, in four weeks

okay, thank you

you're welcome, bye

bye