so, s-so how've you been, um, it's been, what, about four weeks since, since the last visit? yeah. yeah, it's, it's been about a month I think. okay. um, so yeah, I've been, um, feeling better in some ways but, but also worse in, in other ways if that, if that makes sense. mm-hmm. okay. so, so tell me more about that, what's, what's better and what's worse? w-well the, the anxiety is, um, kinda better I guess, like I'm not, I'm not having those, those full-on panic things anymore which, which is, which is good. good. yeah. and, and the, uh, the sertreline, I think that's, that's starting to work a little bit maybe. mm-hmm. okay, good. but, um, the sleep is, s-still pretty bad and, and now I'm getting these, these headaches that, that I wasn't getting before. okay. alright so, so let's, let's, uh, take those one at a time. yeah. so the, the anxiety's better, that's, that's good to hear. how, how much better would you say, like on a, on a scale of one to ten? um, I dunno, maybe like a, a six? before it was, it was like an eight or nine. okay. so that's, that's improvement. yeah. mm-hmm. and, and when, when do you notice the anxiety the most now, like is it, is it morning, evening, or, or kinda all day? it's, uh, mostly in the, the afternoon actually, like around, around two or three o'clock I start getting, getting that, that feeling in my chest again. mm-hmm. okay. and, and are you still taking the, the sertreline at, at a hundred milligrams? yeah. yeah, I, I take it in the morning like you said. okay. good. and, and you're taking it every day? every day, yeah. okay. alright, so, so that's good. um, now tell me about, about the sleep, what's, what's going on with that? so the, the sleep is, s-still really bad, like I'm, I'm maybe getting, um, three, four hours a night? mm-hmm. and, and it's, it's hard to fall asleep and then I, I wake up at, like, three in the morning and, and can't get back to sleep. okay. and, and this is, this is even with, with the, uh, the sertreline at the higher dose? w-well yeah, I mean the, the sertreline is, is for the anxiety right, not, not really for sleep. right, right. okay. um, and, and we had tried, uh, the trazadone before, right? yeah. and you stopped that 'cause of, 'cause of the morning grogginess? yeah, yeah, that, that was, that was bad, like I, I couldn't, I couldn't function in the morning, I was, like, a zombie. mm-hmm. okay. and, and that was, that was at, at fifty milligrams? I think so, yeah, it was, it was either fifty or, no wait, it was, uh, fifty I'm pretty sure. okay. so, so we, we stopped that and, and what about, um, any over-the-counter stuff, are you taking anything for sleep, like melatonin or, or anything like that? I tried, um, melatonin for a bit but, but it didn't, it didn't really do much. mm-hmm. and, and I, I took some, uh, some Benadryl a couple times which, which helped but, but then I felt, felt groggy the next day too. right. okay. so, so same problem as the, the trazadone. yeah, pretty much. mm-hmm. okay. um, and, and the headaches, tell me about, about those, when, when did those start? so the, the headaches started, um, probably about, about two weeks ago? and, and they're, like, in, in the back of my head and, and my neck, like, like a, a tight band around, around my head. mm-hmm. okay. and, and how, how often are you getting them, like, like every day? pretty much every day, yeah, like, like by the, the afternoon I, I get one. okay. and, and how bad, like, on a scale? um, maybe like a, a five or six? they're not, like, the worst headaches ever but, but they're, they're annoying 'cause they're, they're always there. right. mm-hmm. and, and does anything make them better? um, sometimes, like, Advil helps, like, ibuprofin helps a little bit. okay. and, and does anything make them worse, like stress or, or screens or? yeah, stress definitely, like if, if I'm having a, a bad anxiety day the, the headache is worse. mm-hmm. okay. and, and have you ever had, like, migraines before or, or is this, is this new? no, I've never had, like, migraines, I, I don't think so, these are, these are different, they're, like, more, um, more dull and, and achy, not, not like a, a pounding thing. right. okay. so, so they sound like, like tension headaches, which, which makes sense given, given the anxiety. yeah. mm-hmm. okay, so, so lemme, lemme ask you a, a few more questions and then, then we'll, we'll figure out a plan. okay. sure. um, so, so any other, uh, medications you're taking, anything new since, since last time? no, just, just the sertreline and, and my, my birth control. mm-hmm. which is, uh, which one is that again? the, the Lo Loestrin? Lo Loestrin, yeah. okay. and, and any, uh, over-the-counter stuff besides the, the ibuprofin for the headaches? um, I take, like, a, a multivitamin and, and some vitamin D 'cause my, my doctor said I was low. okay. mm-hmm. anything else? no, that's, that's it. okay. and, and how about, uh, caffeine, how much caffeine are you drinking? oh, um, probably, like, two, two cups of coffee in the morning and then, then sometimes a, a soda in the afternoon. mm-hmm. okay, so, so that's, that's a fair amount, and, and do you think the, the caffeine might be, might be contributing to, to the headaches or the, the anxiety? I dunno, maybe, I, I never really thought about that. yeah. okay. um, and, and how about, uh, alcohol, are you drinking? um, like, maybe, maybe one or two drinks on, on the weekend, not, not during the week. okay. good. and, and smoking, any, any tobacco or, or vaping? no, no, I, I quit that, like, two years ago. okay, good, good for you. yeah. um, and, and how about, uh, exercise, are you, are you doing any exercise? not, not really, I, I was, like, walking a, a bit before but, but I've been, um, kinda slacking on that lately. mm-hmm. okay. and, and how about, uh, work, what, what do you do for work again? I'm, I'm an accountant, so, so I'm, like, at a desk all day. mm-hmm. okay. and, and how's, how's work stress been? it's, it's been pretty bad actually, we're, we're in, like, busy season so, so I'm, I'm working, like, ten hour days. oh wow. yeah. mm-hmm. okay. and, and so that, that probably doesn't help with, with the anxiety or the, the headaches. no, no, definitely not. right. um, and, and any, uh, family history of, of anxiety or, or depression or, or anything like that? um, my, my mom has, like, anxiety, I think she, she takes something for it but, but I don't, I don't remember what. mm-hmm. and, and any, uh, thyroid problems in the family? thyroid? um, I, I don't think so, why, why do you ask? well, um, sometimes, uh, thyroid issues can, can cause anxiety and, and sleep problems and, and headaches, so, so I just wanna, wanna check that, that out. oh, okay. sure. mm-hmm. and, and any, uh, any other medical conditions in the family, like, heart disease, diabetes, anything? um, my, my dad has, like, high blood pressure and, and my, my grandmother had diabetes. okay. mm-hmm. alright, so, so lemme, lemme, uh, look at your, your vitals from today ... so blood pressure is, is one twenty over seventy eight, that's, that's good. okay. pulse is, is sixty eight, weight is, um, one fifty two, so, so all, all pretty stable from last time. mm-hmm. good. okay. and, and on, on exam today, um, your, your neck is, is pretty tight, like, like the, the muscles in the back of your neck are, are really tense. yeah, that's, that's where I feel it. mm-hmm. okay. and, and the, the neuro exam is, is normal, so, so no, no focal deficits or, or anything concerning. okay. good. um, so, so let's, let's, uh, talk about, about the plan. yeah. okay. so, so my, my thought is, um, a few things. one, I, I think we should, should increase the, the sertreline from, from a hundred to, to a hundred fifty milligrams. okay. um, 'cause, 'cause you're, you're better but, but not, not where I'd, I'd like you to be, and, and a hundred fifty is, is still a, a safe dose. right. mm-hmm. and, and the, the headaches, I, I think are, are tension headaches related to, to the anxiety and, and the stress, so, so if we, we get the anxiety better, the, the headaches should, should improve too. yeah, that, that makes sense. mm-hmm. okay. and, and for, for the sleep, um, I, I don't, I don't wanna, I don't wanna go back to, to the trazadone 'cause, 'cause that, that didn't work well for you. yeah, no, definitely not. right. um, and, and I, I think instead of, of adding another medication right now, I, I wanna, I wanna try, try something else first. okay. like what? so, um, I, I wanna, I wanna refer you to, to CBT, cognitive behavioral therapy. oh, okay. yeah, I, I think that, that could help with, with both the, the anxiety and, and the sleep, like, they have, they have specific, um, CBT for insomnia that, that can be, be really effective. mm-hmm. okay, yeah, I, I've, I've heard of that. good. um, and, and the, the CBT can also help with, like, the, the headache stuff too, like, learning, learning relaxation techniques and, and that kinda thing. right. okay. and, and then, um, the, the third thing is, is the, the thyroid panel, so, so I wanna, I wanna order some, some labs just to, to rule out, out thyroid issues. okay. so, so TSH, free T4, and, um, I'll also check a, a CBC and, and a CMP just, just to, you know, make sure, sure everything else looks good. mm-hmm. okay. and, and when, when do I go get those? you can, you can go anytime, like, the, the lab order will, will be in the system by, by the time you leave today. okay. good. and, and you don't, you don't need to fast or, or anything like that. oh okay, good. mm-hmm. and, and how, how long, um, how long does it take for, for the, the sertreline to, to work at the, the new dose? good question, so, so it, it can take, like, four to six weeks to, to see the, the full effect, so, so you might, might not notice a, a big difference right away. okay. mm-hmm. and, and should I, like, keep taking the, the ibuprofin for, for the headaches? yeah, you can, you can take that as, as needed, but, but try not to, not to take it more than, than a couple times a week 'cause, 'cause you can get, like, rebound headaches from, from taking it too much. oh, okay, I didn't know that. yeah. mm-hmm. and, and if, if the headaches are, are really bad, you can, you can try, like, some, some acetaminophen too, like, Tylenol. okay. and, and the, the other thing I'd, I'd recommend is, is trying to, to cut back on, on the caffeine a little bit, like, maybe, maybe just one, one cup of coffee instead of, of two. yeah, I, I can try that. mm-hmm. and, and the, the exercise, even, even just, like, a, a twenty minute walk can, can help with, with the anxiety and, and the sleep and, and the headaches, so, so if you can, can fit that in, that, that would be good. yeah, I, I should, I should do that. mm-hmm. okay. and, and then, um, let's, let's see you back in, in four weeks to, to see how, how you're doing on, on the higher dose and, and after the, the labs. okay. and, and if, if the CBT referral goes through, they, they should, should call you within, within a week or two to, to set up an appointment. okay. mm-hmm. and, and if, if you have any, like, really, really bad side effects from, from the, the dose increase, like, like nausea or, or jitteriness or, or anything, call, call the office and, and we can, we can adjust. okay. and, and what, what time of day should I, should I take it, still in the morning? yeah, still, still in the morning, and, and if, if it's making you, you a little jittery, you can, you can try taking it with, with food if, if you're not already. okay, I, I usually do take it with, with breakfast. good. mm-hmm. okay, that's, that's fine then. alright. so, so to, to summarize, we're, we're increasing the, the sertreline to, to a hundred fifty, we're, we're ordering labs, we're, we're referring you to, to CBT, and, and we'll see you back in, in four weeks. yeah. okay. sounds good. any, any other questions or, or concerns? um, no, I, I don't think so, I, I feel like, like we, we covered everything. okay. good. alright, well, um, it's, it's good to see you and, and I, I think, I think you're, you're on the right track, we, we just need to, to tweak things a little bit. yeah. thanks. mm-hmm. okay, take care. you too. bye. bye.